Our theme for this month’s program is
“You Are Precious to Jehovah.”
How vital it is
that we remind ourselves of that!
Why?
Well, let’s consider three reasons.
First, Satan wants us to believe
that Jehovah doesn’t love us
or value our service.
He wanted Job to believe that.
But that was a lie in Job’s day,
and it’s still a lie today.
A second reason that we need
to be reminded that we’re precious to Jehovah
is because of negative circumstances
or events that have taken place in our life.
Severe illness,
advancing years, injustices,
mistreatment,
a difficult family life, or other situations
may cause some brothers and sisters
to feel that they’re just not worth loving.
Some may question why Jehovah
allows those things to happen.
Finally, we need reminders
of how Jehovah feels about us
because our imperfection
can cause us to have negative thoughts.
Some may still punish
themselves for past mistakes,
doubting that Jehovah has forgiven them
or that he could ever love them.
Others wage a constant battle
against feelings of worthlessness.
One Witness wrote:
“Satan has done an excellent job of making
“even those who love Jehovah
feel worthless and unlovable.
“. . . I never felt worthy of Jehovah’s love,
“so I tried to do
more and more in his service
“as a way of earning that love.
“. . . So no matter
how many hours I spent in the ministry,
“or how many people I helped,
I felt it was not enough.
I saw only the lack in me.”
One brother stated:
“I came from a family
that showed little love.
“I was belittled, teased, and laughed at.
“So, early in life I felt worthless.
“I still carry
entrenched feelings from my past
“that beat me down
when I experience calamity.
“When I stopped serving
as a congregation elder,
“I felt like a failure as usual
—to God, my family,
and my brothers in the congregation.”
If you’ve experienced such feelings,
you’re not alone.
So how can you
be assured of Jehovah’s interest?
Let’s examine three lines of evidence
that prove you’re precious to Jehovah.
First, we’ll examine
Jehovah’s feelings for the nation of Israel.
Second, we’ll reflect
on an event recorded in the Gospels.
And third,
we’ll consider a modern-day example
of one who was very precious to God.
By the end of the 16th century B.C.E.,
millions of Israelites
were enslaved in Egypt,
where they were severely oppressed.
In their distress,
the Israelites cried out to Jehovah.
How did he feel?
Turn with me to Isaiah 63:9.
The A portion reads:
“During all their distress
it was distressing to him.”
Did you notice?
Not only did Jehovah see their troubles
but he felt for his people,
and he was moved to act in their behalf.
Isaiah 63:9 goes on to say:
“In his love and compassion
he repurchased them.”
Jehovah couldn’t see
their suffering or hear their outcries
without feeling for them
and doing something about it.
That may remind us of the loving concern
that a mother has for her newborn child.
When that baby cries,
the mother takes notice
and she feels for her child.
In fact, notice how
this is expressed at Isaiah 49:15.
It reads:
“Can a woman forget her nursing child
“or have no compassion
for the son of her womb?
“Even if these women forget,
I would never forget you.”
It’s hard to imagine a mother forgetting
to nourish and care for her nursing child.
That baby is helpless
—day and night
it needs its mother’s attention.
Sad to say, however,
that we hear at times
of such maternal neglect.
But what did Jehovah say
to reassure the Israelites?
“I would never forget you.”
Yes, the tender compassion
that Jehovah felt for his servants
was immeasurably stronger
than one of the most tender
and natural feelings we can imagine
—the compassion
a mother normally feels for her baby.
Jehovah’s feelings for the Israelites
are summed up
in another expression in the book of Isaiah.
Please read with me Isaiah 43:4:
“For you became precious in my eyes,
you were honored, and I have loved you.”
Jehovah clearly expressed
his feelings for his people.
As one of Jehovah’s servants,
you can be sure
that he also loves you most tenderly.
No matter what trials you’re facing now
or have endured in the past,
Jehovah sees you and he feels for you.
When you hurt, he hurts.
You’re far too precious to Jehovah
for him to forget you.
He remembers your past efforts,
and he sees
your continuing efforts to please him.
Notice how Jehovah promises
to sustain and comfort his people
according to Isaiah 66:12, 13:
“You will nurse and be carried on the hip,
“and you will be bounced on the knees.
“As a mother comforts her son,
so I will keep comforting you.”
What a heartwarming scene!
Imagine a loving mother
carrying a baby on her hip
or bouncing him on her knees.
In this way,
Jehovah touchingly illustrates the intensity
and tenderness of his love for you.
Just as Jehovah loved his people, Israel,
he likewise feels that you
are very precious and dear
—never doubt that!
A second example
of how Jehovah feels
about his faithful servants
can be found in the Gospels.
Let’s read what happened on one occasion
when Jesus was at the temple in Jerusalem
at Luke 21:1-4:
“Now as he looked up,
“he saw the rich dropping their gifts
“into the treasury chests.
“Then he saw a needy widow drop in
“two small coins of very little value,
“and he said:
“‘Truly I say to you that this poor widow
“‘put in more than they all did.
“‘For all of these put in gifts
“‘out of their surplus,
“‘but she, out of her want
“‘[or as the footnote says, “poverty”],
put in all the means of living she had.’”
The study note for verse 2
in the New World Translation
of the Holy Scriptures
tells us that the Greek word
for “needy” may describe
“a person who lacks
the basic necessities of life
“or someone for whom
life is a great struggle.
In the Christian Greek Scriptures,
it is used only here.”
Just think about the widow’s circumstances.
Not only had she experienced the grief
of losing her husband, her provider,
but she also lived in a religious climate
dominated by leaders who,
according to Luke 20:47,
would “devour the houses of the widows”
rather than help such vulnerable ones.
That widow was so poor
that her contribution to the temple
was what a laborer
might earn in just a few minutes.
Life wasn’t easy for her.
In fact, Jesus said that she
“put in all the means of living she had.”
Our publications have stated
that the coins the widow contributed
were likely two lepta.
With eight lepta,
a person could buy two sparrows,
which were among the cheapest birds
used for food.
So the widow had
only half the amount needed
to buy one sparrow,
hardly enough for a single meal.
Yet, both the widow and her contribution
were valuable to Jehovah.
Jesus said that her contribution was greater
than the contributions of the rich.
When she put those two small coins
in the treasury chest,
they would be mixed
with what the rich had put in.
To imperfect human eyes,
they might seem lost, buried.
Yet, this precious widow
was the one Jesus singled out for praise.
When the treasury workers
came across the coins,
they wouldn’t have known
how precious the coins and their donor
were to Jehovah.
But God’s view
was the one that really mattered,
not what other people thought
or even how that dear widow viewed herself.
Like that widow,
you may find that circumstances limit
what you can contribute to Jehovah.
Age, infirmities,
or other circumstances beyond your control
may limit the amount of time
you’re able to spend in the ministry.
You might feel
that your efforts are like those
“two small coins of very little value.”
Still, we learn from this account
of the needy widow
that Jehovah notices
and he treasures each act done for him,
especially when we do it
despite difficult circumstances.
For a moment, think back on your worship
of Jehovah during the past year.
Some of you may feel
that you accomplished little.
Your imperfect heart
might cause you to wonder
whether Jehovah
was pleased with your efforts.
However, did one of the hours you spent
require a special sacrifice on your part?
If Jehovah took notice of the widow
dropping in those two coins
and valued her contribution,
don’t you think he also noticed
and valued what you did
for him during that hour?
Jehovah values every gift,
no matter how small,
that springs from a heart motivated by love.
He remembers, and he’ll reward
even the smallest contribution
given in support of his Kingdom.
That’s proof of how Jehovah feels about you.
Finally, let’s consider a modern-day example
of one who was very precious to Jehovah.
It’s the experience of Sister Areti Pina.
Sister Pina lived
on the southern coast of Albania
in the town of Vlorë.
She was baptized in 1928 at the age of 18.
There was a strong congregation
in Vlorë in the 1930’s,
and Sister Pina was a zealous evangelizer
who climbed up and down rugged mountains,
preaching with her Bible in hand.
In time, a congregation
no longer existed in Vlorë,
and Sister Pina lost contact
with the brothers.
Yet, she kept preaching faithfully
on her own.
Do you think her efforts
went unnoticed by Jehovah?
Well, years later, word reached the brothers
that there was an old, senile woman
who was reportedly preaching in Vlorë.
People thought she was crazy
for keeping faith in God
during years of totalitarian rule.
Yet, Sister Pina, now in her 80’s,
was anything but senile.
When the brothers arrived at her home,
Sister Pina invited them in,
but she seemed somewhat reserved.
When they explained
that they were her spiritual brothers,
she had no reaction.
After a few minutes,
Sister Pina started firing
questions at the brothers:
“Do you believe in the Trinity?
What is God’s name?
“Do you believe in hellfire?
What happens when we die?
What about the earth?
How many go to heaven?”
The brothers answered each question.
“Do you preach?” she then asked.
“Yes,” said one brother, “we preach.”
“But,” she responded,
“how do you preach?”
“We preach from house to house,”
replied the brother.
“Now I know that you are my brothers!”
she exclaimed.
“Only Jehovah’s people
preach from house to house!”
Through her tears, Sister Pina stated:
“Jehovah is wonderful.
He never forgot me!”
Sometime later, the brothers
were notified that Sister Pina was ill
and that she wanted to meet
with one of the responsible brothers.
When he arrived, she asked in part,
as she gasped for air,
“Has the book of Revelation been fulfilled?”
The brother responded,
“Yes, Areti, most of it has.”
Sister Pina said:
“Now I can die in peace.
I needed to know how close we are.”
Shortly after that conversation,
Sister Pina
faithfully finished her earthly course.
What do you think?
During all those years of isolation
from the earthly part
of Jehovah’s organization,
did Sister Pina’s efforts
go unnoticed by Jehovah?
Absolutely not!
Just imagine Jehovah’s joy
as he watched her faithfully doing
what she could in his service.
Do you think that Sister Pina
was precious to Jehovah?
Without a doubt she was.
Well, your efforts in Jehovah’s service
do not go unnoticed by him either.
Like Sister Pina, you are precious to him.
So, what has this consideration
helped us to realize?
We may have to contend with Satan’s lies,
negative circumstances
and events in our lives,
and our own imperfections.
But we should never forget
that Jehovah highly values his servants.
We saw that in his words to the Israelites
through the prophet Isaiah.
You can be sure that Jehovah
loves you most tenderly.
No matter what trials you’re facing now
or have endured in the past,
Jehovah sees you and he feels for you.
When you hurt, he hurts.
You’re far too precious to Jehovah
for him to forget you.
The account of the widow in Luke chapter 21
can assure you that although circumstances
may affect what you
can contribute to Jehovah,
he notices and treasures
each act you do for him,
especially when you do it
in the face of difficult circumstances.
He remembers,
and he will reward
even the smallest contribution
given in support of his Kingdom.
And what beautiful modern-day examples
we have in the organization
of brothers and sisters
who have proven their loyalty to Jehovah
and are precious to him,
like the example of Sister Pina!
Dear brothers and sisters, please,
never forget that you
are precious to Jehovah!